Update pick-a-language doc of iOS roadmap (#6532)
kamranahmedse/developer-roadmap: src/data/roadmaps/ios/content/pick-a-language@MrdIb9F-wSEbUz7KRnH3t.md

# Pick a Language

> Apple used to use Objective C for the development of apps for iOS and macOS, but since 2014 [@official@Swift](https://www.swift.org/documentation/) has become the primary language for app development. After more than 10 years of growing strong and mature, now it is worth starting your iOS Developer journey by learning the language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apple used to use Objective C for the development of apps for iOS and macOS, but since 2014 [Swift](https://www.swift.org/documentation/) has become the primary language for app development. After more than 10 years of growing strong and mature, now it is worth starting your iOS Developer journey by learning the language.
```

> Swift is a multi-paradigm language that has [@article@object-oriented](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/introduction-of-object-oriented-programming/), [@article@functional](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/functional-programming-paradigm/), and [@course@protocol-oriented](https://www.kodeco.com/6742901-protocol-oriented-programming-tutorial-in-swift-5-1-getting-started) flavors to it. For someone with a coding background in C++ and Java, the strange concepts would be Optionals, Closures, and the very fact you can skip writing semicolons when you end your statements. Otherwise, it is a very easy and understandable language with straightforward syntax to be familiar with. If you are not yet convinced why you should choose Swift over Objective C, [@video@this old video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h3CKQajX99M) by [@course@Brian Voong](https://www.letsbuildthatapp.com) explains the reasons briefly and know that some of the drawbacks in using Swift he mentioned are by now solved and are treated well in the last couple of years.
> 
> ## Free resources to learn Swift Programming Language from
> 
> 1. [@course@Swift Programming Tutorial | FULL COURSE | Absolute Beginner](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CwA1VWP0Ldw)
> 2. [@course@Swift Programming For Beginners - No Programming Experience](https://www.udemy.com/course/swift-programming-for-beginners-no-experience/)
> 3. [@course@Swift Programming Tutorial – Full Course for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Xg7E9shq0U)
> 4. [@course@Learn Swift Fast (2020) - Full Course For Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FcsY1YPBwzQ)
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swift is a multi-paradigm language that has object-oriented, functional, and protocol-oriented flavors to it. For someone with a coding background in C++ and Java, the strange concepts would be Optionals, Closures, and the very fact you can skip writing semicolons when you end your statements.

Visit the following resources to learn more:

- [@course@Swift Programming Tutorial | FULL COURSE | Absolute Beginner](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CwA1VWP0Ldw)
- [@course@Swift Programming For Beginners - No Programming Experience](https://www.udemy.com/course/swift-programming-for-beginners-no-experience/)
- [@course@Swift Programming Tutorial – Full Course for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Xg7E9shq0U)
- [@course@Learn Swift Fast (2020) - Full Course For Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FcsY1YPBwzQ)
```

> 2. [Swift Programming For Beginners - No Programming Experience](https://www.udemy.com/course/swift-programming-for-beginners-no-experience/?utm_source=adwords&utm_medium=udemyads&utm_campaign=Search_DSA_GammaCatchall_NonP_la.EN_cc.ROW-English&campaigntype=Search&portfolio=ROW-English&language=EN&product=Course&test=&audience=DSA&topic=&priority=Gamma&utm_content=deal4584&utm_term=_._ag_169801645584_._ad_700876640599_._kw__._de_c_._dm__._pl__._ti_dsa-1456167871416_._li_1005570_._pd__._&matchtype=&gad_source=1&gbraid=0AAAAADROdO0Chfq6xvRDtlKV5u88C6bJB&gclid=Cj0KCQjw5ea1BhC6ARIsAEOG5pxkS48V0tvew_5Gp314bZhFSCk8zLoN-vQ7a7Gp9j4uJa_frklh-ykaAhG9EALw_wcB)

Reviewer 2: Maybe you can use a short URL: https://www.udemy.com/course/swift-programming-for-beginners-no-experience/

Author: I see. I will do so. ✌🏾

> 2. [Swift Programming For Beginners - No Programming Experience](https://www.udemy.com/course/swift-programming-for-beginners-no-experience/?utm_source=adwords&utm_medium=udemyads&utm_campaign=Search_DSA_GammaCatchall_NonP_la.EN_cc.ROW-English&campaigntype=Search&portfolio=ROW-English&language=EN&product=Course&test=&audience=DSA&topic=&priority=Gamma&utm_content=deal4584&utm_term=_._ag_169801645584_._ad_700876640599_._kw__._de_c_._dm__._pl__._ti_dsa-1456167871416_._li_1005570_._pd__._&matchtype=&gad_source=1&gbraid=0AAAAADROdO0Chfq6xvRDtlKV5u88C6bJB&gclid=Cj0KCQjw5ea1BhC6ARIsAEOG5pxkS48V0tvew_5Gp314bZhFSCk8zLoN-vQ7a7Gp9j4uJa_frklh-ykaAhG9EALw_wcB)

Reviewer 2: Use @type :
`- [@course@Swift Programming For Beginners - No Programming Experience](https://www.udemy.com/course/swift-programming-for-beginners-no-experience/)`

Please read the [contributing.MD](https://github.com/kamranahmedse/developer-roadmap/blob/master/contributing.md)

Author: Alright, I am on it ✌🏾
